
# Juisyque

Juisyque is a Domain Specific Language which provides a general solution to music programming.




## Grammar
#### Notes
Let's start with notes first. You can assign a note literal to a variable as below:

    $note = Co4;

This one line code assigns a standard C literal to the variable $note. The literal nomenclature is based on [Scientific Pitch Notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_pitch_notation). Although the pitch letter and octave sign are case-insensitive, we recommend you to use uppercase for the pitch and lowercase for the octave.
To represent the flat/sharp note, you can use +/-:

    $note1 = C+o4; $note2 = D-o4;


To modify the duration of a note, multiplication and division operators are supported, e.g.

    $note1 = Co4; $note2 = $note1/16; $note3 = Co4/16;
     # $note1 is a standard C whole note, $note2 and $note3 are both standard C semiquaver notes.

Some may find it tedious to always write "o4" to annotate the standard octave. An alternative is to annotate the relative octave. Juisyque allows you to define octave offset in a music sheet, details can be found in later chapters.

    $note1 = C; $note2 = Co+1; $note3 = Co-1;

Sometimes you may want to have a note which is in the same pitch as a variable, but not the same duration, you can use operator "//" to do norm division (normalize then divide by).

    $note1 = Co4/16; $note2 = $note1//8; $note3 = $note1*2

$note2 and $note3 are both standard C quaver notes, while $note2 is generated by a norm division.

#### Chords
Once you know how to make a note, we can combine several notes into a chord.

    $chordC = (C,E,G);$chordCinv = (Go-1,C,E);

#### Symbols
Other than notes and chords, a music sheet also contains different kinds of musical symbols, such as Rest. Juisyque currently supports Tenuto and Rest. You can define these symbols the same way as notes, simply replace the pitch part with a 'T' or an 'R'.

    $rest = R/4; $tenuto = T/4;

#### Sequences(Vectors)

#### Music Scores (Matrixes)
#### Music Sheets
Music sheets contain more information than the scores:

 - Tempo, marked as Beats Per Minute (BPM)
 - Time Signature, such as "2/4"and  "6/8", more on [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_signature)
 - Octave offset, to rid you of the menial "o4"s
 - Speed Multiplier, providing a Fast-Forward button
 - Instrument information
 - Other textual information such as author, composer

# Demo
Below example makes a birthday song:

    $song = {};
    $song["timeSignature"] = "3/4";
    ### set base octave as 4
    $song["octaveOffset"] = 4;

    ### set norm
    ### default is 1 (full note)
    $song["speedMultiplier"] = 4;

    ### set tempo
    $song["tempo"] = 120;

    ### other referential info
    $song["tonic"] = "C";


    $melody = [A,G,Co+1,| B,R,G/2,G/2,| A,G,Do+1,| Co+1,R,G/2,G/2,| Go+1,Eo+1,Co+1,| B,A,T,| T,R,Fo+1/2,Fo+1/2,| Eo+1,Co+1,Do+1,| Co+1,R,G/2,G/2];
    $melody = [G/2,G/2,$melody,$melody,Co+1,T,R];

    $C = (C,E,G);
    $G = (G,B,Do+1);
    $F = (F,A,Co+1);

    $chords = [$C,T,T,| $G,T,T,| $G,T,T,| $C,T,T,| $C,T,T,| $F,T,T,| $F,T,T,| $G,T,T,| $C,T,T];
    #$chords = [R,$chords,$chords,$C,T,T]
    $chords = [R,repmat($chords,2),$C,T,T];

    ### set score
    $song["score"] = [$melody;$chords];

    make($song)

